template/dev/README.md, before:

# Development template for `fredrikhgrelland/hashistack`

This template can be used as a base image for developing services on the hashistack.
If you found this in `fredrikhgrelland/vagrant-hashistack`, you may be interested in this separate repository [vagrant-hashistack-template-dev](https://github.com/fredrikhgrelland/vagrant-hashistack-template-dev)
Documentation on [parent repository](https://github.com/fredrikhgrelland/vagrant-hashistack#usage).

## Change configuration of hashistack

- consul `conf/consul/99-override.hcl`
- nomad `conf/nomad/99-override.hcl`
- vault `conf/vault/99-override.hcl`

You may edit the `99-override.hcl` or add you own.
Any valid configuration added to these directories will be added and lexically merged.

## Pre- and post-startup playbooks
There are two directories called `playbooks/prestart` and `playbooks/poststart`.  
These will run ansible tasks before and after the hashistack is started,  
and the syntax in the [example](/playbooks/prestart/0-example.yml) must be followed..  
They will be run in lexical order, and prefixing with numbers is a good  
way to get the order you want.

Commit message:

Changed to conf dir
Co-authored-by: Fredrik Hoem Grelland <40291976+fredrikhgrelland@users.noreply.github.com>

template/dev/README.md, after:

# Development template for `fredrikhgrelland/hashistack`

This template can be used as a base image for developing services on the hashistack.
If you found this in `fredrikhgrelland/vagrant-hashistack`, you may be interested in this separate repository [vagrant-hashistack-template-dev](https://github.com/fredrikhgrelland/vagrant-hashistack-template-dev)
Documentation on [parent repository](https://github.com/fredrikhgrelland/vagrant-hashistack#usage).

## Change configuration of hashistack

- consul `conf/consul/99-override.hcl`
- nomad `conf/nomad/99-override.hcl`
- vault `conf/vault/99-override.hcl`

You may edit the `99-override.hcl` or add you own.
Any valid configuration added to these directories will be added and lexically merged.

## Pre- and post-startup playbooks
This vagrantbox will execute ansible playbooks put in two special directories `conf/ansible/playbooks/prestart` and `conf/ansible/playbooks/poststart`. This gives the flexibility to configure all aspects of the hashistack as well as run tasks needed for tests or demo purposes as part of `vagrant up` Note; The playbooks are included into the main run, so the syntax in the [example](/playbooks/prestart/0-example.yml) must be followed..  
They will be run in lexical order, and prefixing with numbers is a good  
way to get the order you want.
